One of the things that developers
are notoriously horrible about
is it then they build their portfolio or
their profile size or
anything that showcases them, they think
only about what they want to build.
Or how they can build or
what the bootcamps telling them or
the colleges or
what people are saying on YouTube.
They're not thinking about the user,
which is a very important
skill that we have to have.
We have to focus on our users.
Then that's the same way when
you're looking for a job.
You have to focus on who
are gonna be the people or
things that are gonna be interacting
with the things that you build.
So before this, we have to know,
in military we call it knowing our enemy,
getting intel, getting recon.
Like so, our situation report is
currently, we are in the middle of
a pandemic, outside is closed,
there have been some layoffs on people.
So you the new developer has to get recon
on who are the users that are hiring,
while also competing with people who
may have more experience than you.
So you have to figure out every blue
piece of intelligence you can get to
plan your portfolios, your resumes,
your CodePens, etc perfectly.
So let's go through the three users.
User number one, this is the big one.
This is your first layered defense against
getting your job, getting your goal.
And this is HR Tech and Bots.
Their strengths is they quickly
find the parameters that are set by
the hiring team.
What that means is they usually
they scan your resumes, they scan,
your portfolios, they scan your LinkedIn.
They see those keywords, they see how
many years you've been in keywords like
same way is when you go to a website and
ask how old are you for
like drinking or something and
you had to put in like your birth date.
Well, it's looking for those like that
year date, to be able to say, okay,
this person has this amount,
this person's experience level starts at,
let's say, 2015 and
then this person is qualified.
This person starts less than after 2015,
then this person isn't qualified, right?
2015 or before they're good,
2015 or after they're not good.
So that was a green red type of paradigm.
Same concept when it comes to keywords.
I actually saw this in real time when
you can upload a key, upload a resume,
upload your keywords and see how many of
those keywords appear on a resume and
how many times you have it set for
your parameters.
So you be like if they need every
single keyword to be said or
at least 70% or
something like that, right?
So these are the two things
that the bot is looking for.
Well, that's its strengths.
Is to minimize the amount
of time that the HR
personnel have to use, but
it's not a real strength for you.
So you have to focus on the keywords that
it would use to make your resume as strong
as possible as well as your portfolio.
Weakness is, it's not empathic,
hard data only,
there's no real workaround for
this beyond making sure that
you're using the right word,
you're using the right words often.
The gotcha is you don't know
what the parameters are.
So we have to do that well more intel or
we can focus on, what I like to do, which
we'll get more into our entire resume an
offensive protocol to write in our resume.
So that we play offence, not defence and
we'll get more into that.
But it's a robot, so
you get what you get with it.
Now, here is user two.
This is the second adversary or
ally depending on how
they are helped to you getting your job,
right?
These are the HR recruiters.
Their strength, they're human,
so they have empathy,
they have creativity,
they can be influenced.
So you can have them like,
Pause, like you can
influence their decisions to
assumptions at a greater level,
you can pique their interest.
Weakness, they don't have much time.
The average resume website
is about six seconds of
time per resume per website.
So you have to make sure that
what you're doing pops or
has all these keywords readily available
so it can grab their attention.
They tend not to be the technical ones,
their specialty is HR, not not tech.
So while beyond the key words, beyond the
things that the tech team is telling them
what they need, they don't really
have that deep understanding which
can be can be a win or
a loss depending on how you use it.
The gotcha, like I said earlier,
decisions can be influenced by
what by design or what you build.
That is very important because, you have
to understand when it comes to websites,
when it comes to anything that you're
building as a developer, deep down
the 8020 rule of it is 80%
of people care about is,
does it look good,
is it fast, does it work?
So those are the things that can
help influence the HR recruiter.
All right, and here you go.
These are big bats, right?
These are people that you tend to
be a little more intimidated by if
you're selling your first
job because these people,
they already had the job and
they've been at the job and
they are the ones basically
saying you're go, no go, right?
So the tech lead or tech team, their
strengths is that they are very technical.
So all those terms you've been studying
on like beyond interview cake,
on the Mozilla MDN, reading through
over and over and over again.
These are the people that you're
gonna be able to use them on.
These are the show, right,
these are people that are gonna ask
you about FizzBuzz and
Fibonacci sequences and
all that other boring stuff that
you have to get through just so
they can pay you to change
the color of an href.
We never say interviewing was perfect, but
we have to deal with the world the way
it is not the way we want it to be.
So their gotcha.
They can be influenced by building
rapport based on product or
company values or community.
That's one of the things we're
going to your virtual meet ups and
talking on Twitter and
writing your blogs and things major.
That's where that influence to assumption
comes into play because the more
they know you, in the end, they're trying
to find people who can do the job or
people who have the potential to do the
job that they can spend eight hours with
and not end up having to go to HR
themselves for something negative.
Weaknesses, the harsh reality is they
may have gatekeeping practices built in.
As I just said earlier,
going through FizzBuzz to change colors
on a website is a pretty weird
thing that we do in tech.
That we have to work around and
we as a community have to be better.
But until then we have to train for
the worst case scenarios
versus get upset about the worst
case scenarios and react negatively.
So you have to be cognizant of that,
especially some of them may have
biases against bootcamps,
against self taught things that nature or
against CS grads,
I've have actually seen that.
So we have to prepare to adapt and
overcome for
those things that we see
that we might interact with.